# Episode 2
Learnings:-
1. What is npm, npm init?
2. what is package.json, package-lock.json?
3. Installed Parcel !!
4. why do we need parcel? or any other bundlers?
5. what is the process of parcel bundling?




-> npm doesn't stand for Node Package Manager, Instead it stands form evrything other than node package manager , hahaha

-> package.json is configuration for npm ,these are also known as dependencies.
-> npm manages these packages (Think this as similar to pom.xml in mulesoft).
-> package-lock.json -> It locks the exact versions of dependencies and sub-dependencies.

# Bundles:
1. What is bundle ?
-> A bundle is a single javaScript file which contains all your code + all your dependencies.

2. Why do we need bundles?
    --> Browsers can only run JS, HTML, and CSS.In modern projects, you often use:
        Many small JS modules (import … from …)
        External libraries like React, Lodash, etc.
  If you load each file separately, it’s slow and messy.
  Bundlers like Webpack, Parcel, or Vite combine all your code + libraries into a bundle.js that the browser can run directly.

            --> npx parcel build <traget file>

3. package.json  -> It’s the manifest file of your project.
                Tells npm/yarn:
                1.What your project is called (name, version, description)?
                2.Which dependencies your project uses ?
                3.Which scripts you can run (npm start, npm run build)?


4. package-lock.json -> This file is auto-generated by npm.
                     It locks the exact versions of dependencies and sub-dependencies.
                     Ensures that if someone else installs your project, they get the exact same versions (no surprises).

5. node_modules -> It is a auto generated file It contains actual downloaded code for every   dependencies and their  sub-dependencies. We dont touch it manually the npm manages it.
             ->  Every module inside it has separate package.json , package-lock.json files
                 this is known as transitive dependency (A->B->C)

6. what is parcel?
--> It is a javascript bundler , takes all your source files(JS,CSS, images,etc) combines them into a single javascript file.

   a. why do we need parcel? (any other bundlers)
    --> In a project there could be many small js modules  like app.js,header,js,footer.js etc . when the browser js tries to run these, it becomes messy and hard to execute on by one .  so we bundle these files .
    --> It also does minification and tree shaking to optimize the code 

   b.Bundlers evolved over time:
           Webpack → old, powerful, config-heavy
           Parcel → simpler alternative for beginners
           Vite → newest approach, extremely fast for modern frameworks

   c. Vite used two diff bundlers 
      1. esbuild -> In dev
      2. rollup  -> In production
    There are two types of dependencies 
    1. dev dependency ->  used in dev phase
    2. normal dependency -> used in production phase

    Parcel is a depency which we require in dev phase 
                ----> npm install -D parcel 
    here -D refers to dev dependency 
    
7. Script type = module

8. How does parcel bundles (the process) ?
    --> when we execute this command  --npx parcel index.html--
    --> Parcel  scans all the dependencies(all import and export statements) and builds a   dependency graph.
    --> this graph contains nodes , these nodes are files (eg: JS,CSS,PNG etc).
    --> parcel records this graph to know how everything is getting connected .
    --> Parcel Automatically transforms (JSX-> JS, TS -> JS etc).
    --> Transpilation - parcel Compile Modern code to browser  code (JS).